A heart attack occurs when
blood flow to the heart is blocked.
The blockage is often from thick,
fatty deposits, called plaque,
on the inside walls of your coronary arteries.
The coronary arteries supply blood and oxygen to the heart.
This buildup of plaque in the coronary arteries
is called Coronary Artery Disease.
Sometimes a plaque can break,
and the body forms a clot that blocks blood flow.
Without blood and oxygen,
your heart tissue can be damaged or dies,
causing a heart attack.
Symptoms of a heart attack vary.
Some people have early warning signs
while others experience no symptoms.
Symptoms commonly reported include:
tightness or pain in the chest, neck, back, or arms
Nausea
Sweating
Trouble breathing
Fatigue
Dizziness or sudden lightheadedness
A heart attack is a medical emergency.
Call 911 or seek immediate medical help
if you or someone you know
is experiencing symptoms of a heart attack.